## Application Development using Microservices and Serverless

### Introduction to Microservices

- Modern software development often delivers centrally hosted, web-based, software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications.
- Twelve factor app methodology enables developers to create more efficient SaaS applications.
- The twelve factors map to the code, deploy, and operate stages of the software delivery lifecycle.
- Microservices make each application component its own service, and each service communicates via an API.
- Microservices allow application components to use different technology stacks.
- Microservices enable individual components to scale in response to demand.
- Microservices lessen risks associated with change because components can iterate independently.
- Failures in one service do not necessarily impact other services.
- There are some anti-patterns to avoid when building microservices.

### REST API and GraphQL

- REST APIs provide flexible but uniform interfaces between components.
- REST APIs are stateless and scalable.
- REST APIs communicate using HTTP methods POST, GET, PUT and DELETE.
- REST is an architectural style defining how applications communicate.
- API Gateway is the door to your backend services while also enabling you to plug additional services while providing unified access.
- API Gateway makes it easier to scale or replace your backend services.
- Flask is a micro web framework to host Python web applications.
- cURL is used for transferring data with URLs and can be used at a command line or in scripts.
- Postman is a simple and popular tool for building, testing, and using APIs.
- Swagger helps you document and test your API.
- OpenAPI specification is a standard way of representing your APIs.

### Serverless

- Serverless is the concept of building and running applications that do not require server management.
- Serverless uses BaaS services and FaaS platforms.
- Cloud providers take care of infrastructure management and maintenance tasks.
- The arrival of serverless computing means development teams can focus on writing high-quality code.
- Serverless offers several benefits, such as built-in high availability and fault tolerance, faster function run times, and pay-per-request billing.
- Serverless computing has several constraints, including unacceptable latency for time-critical apps, complex monitoring and debugging, and no state persistence.
- FaaS is a type of cloud-computing service that allows you to execute code in response to events without a complex infrastructure.
- FaaS is a subset of serverless computing that creates applications in the form of multiple functions; and can be deployed on cloud, hybrid, or on-premises.
- A serverless stack comprises of FaaS, BaaS, and an API Gateway.
- The Serverless Framework is a free and open-source web framework written using Node.js.
- The use cases for serverless web applications are Web Application, Event streaming, Post-processing, and Polyglot systems.
- AWS Lambda provides you with an event-driven and pay-as-you-go serverless platform.
- Google Cloud Functions provides you with a simplified developer experience, along with Firebase for real-time data sync.
- Microsoft Azure promotes cloud and edge computing.
- IBM Cloud Functions gives you high availability and cost-effective computing.
- Knative promotes platform-agnostic alternate.

### Create and Deploy Applications using Serverless

- Self-hosted microservices can be very complex and challenging.
- IBM Cloud Code Engine is a fully managed platform that takes care of all the hard deployment work, allowing developers to focus on their code.
- IBM Cloud Code Engine has three main use cases: 1) deploy applications, 2) build and deploy applications, and 3) run jobs.
- A project is a grouping of Code Engine entities such as applications, jobs, and builds.
- An application runs your code to serve HTTP requests or to create WebSocket sessions.
- A build is a process to create a container image from your source code.
- A job runs one or more instances of your executable code.
- A container is a standalone executable software unit packaged with all its dependencies.
- Docker is a popular container building and running platform.
- You can compose a Dockerfile to instruct the Docker platform to build a container image.
- After the container image is built, it can be pushed to the container registry and then be pulled by its image name.
- You can create a Cloud Engine application either from a pushed container image or a source code repository.
- As per your preference, you can choose to use the IBM Cloud Console or IBM Cloud CLI to perform the application deployment tasks.

---

### Certificate

[Course certificate](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/verify/H47EVV7S9FLR)
