## Introduction to Test and Behavior Driven Development

### Introduction to Testing

- Testing verifies that your software will work as expected when you or others use it.
- Testing prevents future code breaks and compatibility issues.
- Testing reduces overall development time.
- The software testing process includes four levels: unit, integration, system, and acceptance.
- The level of testing that developers perform varies throughout the phases of the traditional release cycle.
- Test cases drive code design in both behavior driven development (BDD) and test driven development (TDD).
- BDD focuses on the system from the outside in, while TDD focuses on the system from the inside out
- Developers use BDD for integration and acceptance testing but use TDD for unit testing.
- Test cases help developers identify and fix parts of their code that can break.

### Test Driven Developement

- In TDD, test cases drive code design.
- The Red/Green/Refactor workflow includes three steps:
    - Write a failing unit test case for the code you wish you had
    - Write just enough code to pass this test case
    - Refactor the code to improve its quality
- TDD saves development time and ensures that the code works as expected.
- To create a DevOps pipeline, you must automate all testing.
- The xUnit series is one of the most popular testing frameworks for TDD, while others include Jasmine for JavaScript, Mocha for Node.js, and SimpleTest for PHP.
- The two most popular testing frameworks for Python are PyUnit and Pytest. Two other popular testing frameworks for Python are Doctest and RSpec.
- Nose is a Python test runner that can add color to test output and call the code coverage tool.
- To run TDD tests in Bash, you can call unittest or nosetests if Nose is installed.
- Unlike unittest, Nose can color code test results, report code coverage, and list missing test cases.
- Testing frameworks provide tools that simplify testing conditions.
- Assertions are checks to determine if tests have passed or failed.
- To create assertions in Python, developers can use the assert () function or any additional PyUnit asserts.
- Happy paths verify that a function returns positive outcomes when expected, while sad paths confirm that a function responds to exceptions appropriately and without breaking.
- Test fixtures establish a known initial state before and after each test.
- Test fixtures are helpful for many testing situations, such as creating mock objects and loading a database with a known data set.
- Test fixtures operate at three levels of specificity:
    - Module
    - Test case
    - Test

### Advanced Methods for Test Driven Development

| Term           | Definition |
|----------------|------------|
| Factory        | Used to generate fakes with realistic test data. |
| Fakes          | Behave like real objects during tests, so developers test fakes like they test real data. |
| flask routes   | A command that will return all the endpoints or “routes” that the application supports. |
| Mocking        | A process for creating objects that mimic the behavior of real objects. |
| Mock objects   | An object that simulates, or mimics, the behavior of a real object in ways that you can control. |
| Patch          | A powerful tool to simulate error conditions and control what is returned from a call to any function. |
| Patching       | Can change the behavior of a function call. |
| Side effect    | A technique to provide your own function that gets called instead of the real function while under test. |
| Test coverage  | The percentage of lines of code that are executed during all of your tests. |

---

- The higher the test coverage, the more confident developers can be that their code works as expected.
- Missing test coverage reports can help developers identify lines of code that still need test cases.
- Factories and fakes are useful for creating and maintaining a large amount of test data.
    - Factories generate fakes with realistic test data.
    - Fakes behave like real objects during testing, so developers test fakes like they test real data.
- Mocking is a process of creating objects that mimic the behavior of real objects.
- Developers should mock whenever they want to isolate tests from a remote component or external system.
- Patching is a mocking technique by which developers change the behavior of a function call.
- Python’s mock library provides two patching techniques:
    - Patching a function’s return value
    - Replacing a function with another function (the side effect technique)
- Mock objects are objects that mimic the behavior of real objects in ways that you can control.
- To make a Mock or MagicMock object mimic a given object, specify the real object’s name in the spec parameter.
- TDD keeps you focused on the application’s requirements before writing a single code line.
- The TDD workflow is a back-and-forth process.

### Behavior Driven Development

- Behavior driven development (BDD) is a test-first approach to development that ensures that an application behaves as intended.
- In the software testing process, the appropriate levels for performing BDD are integration, system, and acceptance testing.
- BDD describes behaviors in a single syntax that domain experts, testers, developers, and stakeholders can easily understand.
- The BDD workflow includes three steps:
    - Create examples or scenarios to describe the desired behavior
    - Run those examples as automated tests
    - Write additional tests as needed
- The BDD workflow leads to one document that acts as both the specification and the tests for your software.
- To build a BDD specification, write a feature and scenarios using the Given, When, Then syntax.
- BDD tools like Cucumber and Behave use the Gherkin syntax, while tools like Concordion use other specification syntaxes.
- When choosing a BDD tool, you should consider the programming languages and specification syntaxes that it supports.
    - Running Behave requires you to create a Features folder for feature files and a Steps folder under that for Python steps files.
    - Behave performs the following actions when run:
        - Reads the Gherkin statements in each feature file.
        - Looks for matching Python steps in the steps files.
        - Executes the test functions embedded within the Python steps.
- To set up the Behave environment, you must:
    - Import getenv() and other required modules.
    - Declare global variables from the environment.
        - Define your test fixtures.
- You should follow these tips when writing a feature file:
    - Strive for consistency.
    - Consider the user experience.
    - Build in cues that signal that the system has responded to a request.
- You can use a Background section in a feature to easily establish the same initial state before each scenario.
- To automate web page interactions with Selenium, you must:
    - Initialize Selenium in the environment.
    - Choose one of Selenium’s methods for finding an element by type.
    - Specify what to do with that element.
- To write a Python step, you should:
    - Note a Gherkin statement’s keyword and string.
    - Write a Python step corresponding to the statement.
    - Write a function to implement this step.
- To extract and load test data with Behave, you can insert a data table into a feature’s Background section and then iterate over this table’s contents with a ‘for’ loop.

### Running Behave for Behavior Driven Development

- Behave reports all missing Python steps and suggests code snippets that you can use for them.
- With this code, you have the starting point for building your steps file.
- The workflow for implementing Python steps is as follows:
    - Implement a step
    - Run Behave and ensure the step passes
    - Implement the next step that fails
    - Run Behave and ensure that this step passes
    - Repeat this process until all steps pass
- Context is a variable that gets passed into every step definition.
- To pass information between steps, store it in the context variable of one step and call on that variable in another step.
- Variable substitution reduces the steps needed and maximizes reuse.
- To substitute variables, you follow this process:
    - Replace data in the decorator string with variables enclosed by curly braces.
    - Add step implementation parameters with the same names as those variables.
    - Substitute those variable names instead of the strings passed in from the feature file.

### Final assignment

- Testing verifies that your software will work as expected when you or others use it.
- The software testing process includes four levels: unit, integration, system, and acceptance.
- Test cases drive code design in both behavior driven development (BDD) and test driven development (TDD).
- BDD focuses on the system from the outside in, while TDD focuses on the system from the inside out.
- The Red/Green/Refactor workflow includes three steps:
    - Write a failing unit test case for the code you wish you had
    - Write enough code to pass this test case
    - Refactor the code to improve its quality
- Nose is a Python test runner that can add color to test output and call the code coverage tool.
- Test fixtures establish a known initial state before and after each test.
- Factories and fakes are useful for creating and maintaining large test data.
- Patching is a mocking technique by which developers change the behavior of a function call.
- Mock objects are objects that mimic the behavior of real objects in ways that you can control.
- Behavior driven development (BDD) is a test-first approach to development that ensures that an application behaves as intended.
- In the software testing process, the appropriate levels for performing BDD are integration, system, and acceptance testing.
- The BDD workflow includes three steps:
    - Create examples or scenarios to describe the desired behavior
    - Run those examples as automated tests
    - Write additional tests as needed
- To build a BDD specification, you write a feature and then write scenarios using the Given, When, Then syntax.
- Context is a variable that gets passed into every step definition.
- Variable substitution reduces the steps needed and maximizes reuse.

---

### Certificate

[Course certificate](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/verify/8IJHB64F26CU)
