## Introduction to Cloud Computing

### Introduction

- Cloud computing is the delivery of on-demand computing resources over the internet on a pay-as-you-go basis; resources are dynamically assigned and reassigned among multiple users and scale up and down in response to users’ needs.
- The origins of cloud computing can be traced back to the mainframes of the 1950s, with virtualization technologies and hypervisors serving as catalysts for the emergence of modern-day cloud computing.
- Organizations must consider their business needs, investment viability, and risk capacity to create a cloud adoption strategy that delivers desired benefits without causing business disruptions and security, compliance, or performance issues.
- Cloud adoption is growing faster than predicted. Driving this technological wave are cloud service providers with a host of services ranging from Infrastructure, Platform, and Software services. Some major Cloud providers of our time include AWS, Alibaba Cloud, Google, IBM, and Microsoft Azure.

### Business Case for Cloud Computing

- The adoption of cloud technologies enables enterprises, big and small, to be agile, innovative, and competitive and to create differentiated customer experiences. Organizations are asking not whether they should move to the cloud but rather what strategy they should adopt to move to the cloud.
- Some case studies that demonstrate the impact businesses have created by adopting the cloud:
    - American Airlines adopting cloud technologies to deliver customer value rapidly across its enterprise
    - UBank leveraging cloud platform services to give more control to their developers, thereby removing barriers to innovation
    - Bitly leveraging the scalability offered by cloud infrastructure for low-latency delivery to its geographically  dispersed enterprise customers
    - ActivTrades leveraging the infrastructure, storage, network, and security offerings on the cloud to accelerate execution and delivery of new functions in their online trading systems to their customers

### Emerging Technologies Accelerated by Cloud

- Emerging technologies powered by the cloud are disrupting existing business models and creating unprecedented opportunities for businesses to grow, innovate, and create value for their customers.
- Some case studies that demonstrate how the use of emerging technologies on the cloud is creating value for millions around the world:
    - The use of the Internet of Things on the cloud to combat poaching of endangered rhinos in South Africa
    - Artificial Intelligence on the cloud is being leveraged to deliver unique digital experiences to millions of fans around the world by the United States Tennis Association
    - Blockchain on the cloud helps farmers reduce waste by building traceability and transparency in the food supply chain
    - The use of data analytics for driving predictive maintenance solutions for a city’s infrastructure by KONE

|Term|Definition|
|---|---|
|AI|Artificial intelligence|
|Blockchain|An immutable network allowing members to view only those transactions that are relevant to them|
|Broad Network Access|Cloud computing resources can be accessed through the network|
|Cloud computing|A model for enabling convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction|
|GCP|Google Cloud Platform|
|Hypervisor|A small software layer that enables multiple operating systems to run alongside each other, sharing the same physical computing resources|
|IDC|International Data Corporation|
|IoT|Internet of things|
|Measured Service|You only pay for what you use or reserve as you go|
|NIST|National Institute for Standards and Technology|
|PaaS|Platform as a service|
|Pay-As-You-Go|Users can order cloud resources from a larger pool of available resources and pay for them on a per-use basis|
|POP|Post office protocol|
|Rapid elasticity|You can increase or decrease resources as per your demand because of the elastic property of the cloud|
|SaaS|Software as a service|
|Utility model of billing|You are charged after the usage and at the end of the pre-defined period|
|VM|Virtual machine|

### Service Models

- With IaaS, the cloud provider manages physical resources.
- With PaaS, the provider manages the platform infrastructure.
- In the SaaS model, the provider hosts and manages the applications and data.
- Infrastructure-as-a-Service is a form of cloud computing that delivers fundamental computer, network, and storage resources to consumers on-demand, over the network, on a pay-as-you-go basis.
- The key components of cloud infrastructure are:
    - Physical data centers
    - Compute
    - Network
    - Storage
- Platform-as-a-Service is a cloud computing model that provides customers with a complete platform—hardware, software, and infrastructure.
- The high level of abstraction, support services, runtime environments, rapid deployment mechanisms, and middleware capabilities distinguishes PaaS clouds.
- PaaS advantages are:
    - Scalability
    - Faster time to market products and services.
    - Greater agility and innovation
- Software-as-a-Service is a cloud offering that provides users with access to a service provider’s cloud-based software.
- SaaS characteristics are:
    - Multitenant architecture
    - Security, compliance, and maintenance
    - Customization of applications
    - Subscription model
    - Scaling
- SaaS advantages are:
    - Direct procurement of solutions
    - Improved workforce productivity and efficiency
    - Enable distribution of software costs

### Deployment Models

- Deployment models indicate where the infrastructure resides, who owns and manages it, and how cloud resources and services are made available to users. There are four main deployment models available on the cloud—public, private, hybrid, and community.
- In the public cloud model, the service provider owns, manages, provisions, and maintains the physical infrastructure such as data centers, servers, networking equipment, and storage, with users accessing virtualized computing, networking and storage resources as services.
- In the private cloud model, the provider provisions the cloud infrastructure for exclusive use by a single organization. The private cloud infrastructure can be internal to the organization and run on-premises. Or it can be on a public cloud, as in the case of Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), and be owned, managed, and operated by the cloud provider.
- In the hybrid cloud model, an organization’s on-premise private cloud and a third-party, public cloud are connected as a single, flexible infrastructure that leverages the features and benefits of both Public and Private clouds.
- In the community cloud model, the provider provisions the cloud infrastructure for use by a community of organizations with shared concerns. One or more of the organizations in the community, a third-party provider, or both are responsible for the ownership, management, and operation of this infrastructure.

### Cloud Infrastructure

- Cloud infrastructure consists of data centers, storage, networking components, and computing resources.
- Virtualization is the process of creating a software-based version of physical resources, made possible by hypervisors.
- A few different types of Virtual Machines can be provisioned on the cloud. These include:
    - Shared or Public Cloud VMs that are provider-managed, multi-tenant deployments that can be provisioned on-demand with predefined sizes
    - Transient or Spot VMs that take advantage of unused capacity in a cloud data center
    - Reserved VMs that allow you to reserve capacity and guarantee resources for future deployments
    - Dedicated hosts that offer single-tenant isolation
- Bare metal servers are single-tenant physical servers that are dedicated to a single customer. Bare metal servers fulfill the demanding needs of high-performance computing (HPC) and data-intense applications. They are ideal for applications that have a high degree of security or compliance requirements.
- Networking capabilities in the cloud are delivered as a service rather than in the form of rack-mounted devices. Cloud resources such as VMs (or VSIs), storage, network connectivity, and load balancers are deployed into subnets within Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs). Using private and public subnets allows users to deploy multi-tier enterprise applications securely. Load balancers distribute the traffic and allow applications to be responsive.
- Containers are executable units of software in which application code, its libraries, and its dependencies are packaged in a common way, so that it can be run anywhere, from desktops, traditional IT, to the cloud. Containers are more lightweight and consume fewer resources than Virtual Machines, helping streamline the development and deployment of cloud native applications.

### Cloud Storage and Content Delivery Networks

- Cloud storage is available in four main types–Direct Attached, File, Block, and Object Storage. These storage types differ in how they can be accessed, the capacity they offer, how much they cost, the types of data they are best suited to store, and their read-write speed.
- Direct Attached (or Local) Storage is storage that is presented directly to a cloud-based server and is effectively either within the host server chassis or within the same rack.
- File Storage is typically presented to compute nodes as a Network File System (NFS), which means that the storage is connected to compute nodes over a standard ethernet network.
- Block Storage is presented to compute nodes using high-speed fiber connections, typically provisioned in volumes, which are mounted onto a compute node.  
- Object Storage is accessed via an API and doesn’t need an underlying compute node.
- Object Storage offers infinite capacity as you can keep adding files to it and just pay for what you use. Compared to the other storage types, object storage is slowest in terms of read and write speeds.
- A Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a distributed server network that accelerates internet content delivery by delivering temporarily stored or cached copies of website or media content to users based on their geographic location.

| Term                     | Definition |
|--------------------------|------------|
| ACL                      | Access Control Lists |
| AZ                       | Availability Zones are distinct Data Centers with their own power, cooling and networking resources. These Zones can have names like DAL-09 or us-east-1. |
| Bare-metal hypervisor    | Installed directly on top of the physical server. They're more secure, have lower latency, and are usually the ones you see in the market the most. |
| Block storage            | Presented to compute nodes using high-speed fiber connections, which means that read and write speeds are typically much faster and more reliable than with file storage. |
| CDNs                     | Content Delivery Networks is a distributed server network that delivers temporarily stored, or cached, copies of website content to users based on the user’s geographic location. |
| Cloud Region             | A geographic area or location where a Cloud provider’s infrastructure is clustered, and may have names like NA South or US East. |
| Containers               | Executable units of software in which application code is packaged, along with its libraries and dependencies, to run anywhere — desktop, traditional IT, or the cloud. |
| Data center              | A huge room or warehouse containing cloud infrastructure. |
| Dedicated hosts          | Offer single-tenant isolation. |
| Direct Attached storage  | Also called Local storage; storage directly attached to a cloud-based server, typically within the same chassis or rack. |
| File storage             | Typically presented to compute nodes as ‘NFS Storage’. NFS stands for Network File System and uses a standard ethernet network. |
| Hosted hypervisor        | A hypervisor with a host OS layer between it and the physical server. Mostly used for “end-user” virtualization. |
| HPC                      | High-performance computing. |
| Hypervisor               | Software that runs above the physical server or host to enable virtualization. |
| IOPS                     | Input/Output Operations Per Second – measures disk read/write speed. |
| NFS                      | Network File Storage. |
| Object storage           | Storage accessed via an API, not directly attached to a compute node. |
| Reserved virtual server  | Instances that reserve capacity and guarantee resources for future deployments. |
| SDN                      | Software Defined Networking. |
| Shared or Public Cloud VMs | Provider-managed, multi-tenant VMs provisioned on-demand with predefined sizes. |
| Transient or Spot VMs    | Use unused capacity in a cloud data center, often cheaper but not guaranteed. |
| Virtualization           | Creating a software-based or virtual version of something — compute, storage, networking, servers, or apps. |
| VLANs                    | Virtual Local Area Networks. |
| VM                       | Virtual machines – software-based computers using virtualization. |
| VPC                      | Virtual Private Cloud. |
| VPN                      | Virtual Private Networks. |

- Cloud native applications are applications that are built or refactored to work in the cloud environment. These applications, developed using DevOps methodologies, consist of microservices packaged in containers that can run in any environment—making it possible to create and update features in quick iterative cycles.
- DevOps is a collaborative approach that enables development and operations teams to continuously deliver software in quick iterative cycles while reducing overhead, duplication, and rework. DevOps’ tools, practices, and processes help tackle the complexities and challenges posed by the cloud, allowing solutions to be delivered and updated quickly and reliably.
- Application modernization helps organizations accelerate their digital transformation, take advantage of new technologies and services, and become more responsive to changing market dynamics. Cloud computing is one of the key enablers of application modernization.

### Cloud Security and Monitoring

- Cloud security refers to the policies, technological procedures, services, and solutions designed to secure enterprise applications and data on the cloud against insider threats, data breaches, compliance issues, and organized security threats.
- Cloud security is a shared responsibility between the cloud provider and the user organization.
- Security architecture and methods for achieving continuous security need to be embedded through the life cycle of an application to ensure that the application runs on a safe platform, the code is free from vulnerabilities, and the operational risks are understood.
- Identity and Access Management, also known as access control, helps authenticate and authorize users and provides user-specific access to cloud resources, services, and applications.
- As part of their Identity and Access Management services, most cloud providers offer users the ability to define access groups and create access policies that define permissions for users on account resources.
- Cloud encryption, often called the last line of defense, encrypts data and provides robust data access control, key management, and certificate management.
- Data needs encryption in three states:
    - Encryption at rest: Protecting data while it is stored
    - Encryption in transit: Protecting data while it is transmitted from one location to another
    - Encryption in use: Protecting data when it is in use in memory
- All connected systems and cloud-based services should be monitored to maintain visibility of all data exchanges between public, private, and hybrid cloud environments. This ensures that the cloud provides a trusted platform to integrate with your enterprise data centers securely.

---

### Certificate

[Course certificate](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/verify/QWYN77408SXN)
